# Definitions



* **Weapon: **_****_ Refers to any object, tool, or item, whether or not regulated or manufactured, that a person utilizes to inflict harm, threatens harm, or utilize in lieu of a regulated or manufactured item that, when used as intended, can inflict harm.
* **Firearm:** The term “**firearm**” means (A) any weapon which will, or is designed to, or may readily be converted to expel a projectile by the action of an explosive; (B) the frame or receiver of any such weapon; (C) any firearm muffler or firearm silencer; or (D) any destructive device. Such a term does not include an antique firearm or a clearly identifiable imitation weapon with an orange muzzle tip.
* **Explosive:** The term “**destructive device**” means— (A)any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas— (i)bomb, (ii)grenade, (iii)rocket having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, (iv)missile having an explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, (v)mine, or (vi)device similar to any of the devices described in the preceding clauses.
* **Open Carry**: The term "open carry" or "to openly carry \[a firearm]" refers to publicly displaying a weapon's presence on your person. For example, a handgun is openly carried when the holster it is stored in is visible and not concealed. A firearm that is not a handgun is openly carried when a person is clearly displaying their possession of that weapon by having it strapped to their body, carrying it with their hands, etc..&#x20;
* **Adult**: A person who is 18 years old or older.&#x20;
* **Motor Vehicle:** A vehicle, or motor vehicle, is defined as a self-propelled transportation device which is used to transport people or things by driving on roads. ****&#x20;
  1. Any vehicle which cannot exceed a maximum speed of 25 miles per hour on a level-paved surface shall not be considered a motor vehicle, by this definition, and does not require registration to be operated on a public road.&#x20;
  2. All **self-propelled** vehicles driving on public roads must still comply with roadworthiness requirements, such as needing a brake-light and head-light, even if they are not a motor vehicle under this definition. For example: A golf cart with no brake lights may not operate on a public road, but a bicycle may do so within the confines of Bicycle Lane Usage.
* **All-Terrain Vehicle / Off Road Vehicle:** An ATV, Dirt-bike, UTV, Golf Cart, Go-Kart or Construction equipment such as Bulldozers and Motor-graders.
* **Public Road:** A public road or roadway is defined as any highway, freeway, road, or street open to public travel and use which is not on private or restricted property. This also includes dirt and gravel paths except those which are within the confines of a state or national park. An ATV, dirt-bike, or off-roading vehicle does not require registration, nor shall the driver require a driving license, to operate on roads or trials within a state/national forest/park. Also, for the purpose of a public road, using a crosswalk and/or moving a non-roadworthy vehicle from one side of the road-edge (or sidewalk) to the other is not considered 'driving' it on that public road.
* **Vehicle Registration and Plates:**&#x20;
  1. Normal operating plates for civilian or commercial vehicles, including a variety of vanity designs, are intended for vehicles owned, operated, leased, rented, or used in a private or commercial non-government capacity.&#x20;
  2. SA Exempt: Exempt plates are issued by the government and are to be displayed on government owned vehicles or private vehicles owned by a government official, which they use to perform both private activities as well as work related functions (requires approval from their employer). The "exemption" means that the government agency does not have to pay vehicle registration fees to the DMV for that vehicle.&#x20;
  3. Protected Plates: Plates which appear as either normal or exempt and display a registration flag of "Protected" or "Restricted" when searched, along with the name of the agency which has protected/restricted that information. These are reserved for higher ranking government officials. These plates are to be treated as SA Exempt plates.&#x20;
  4. Cold-Plated Vehicles: In rare instances, protected plates may be used as completely unregistered for obscurity and security. If a cold-plated vehicle is being driven, the vehicle will appear unregistered, and therefore, the operator of the vehicle should be prepared to verify their employment and explain the vehicle's protected status when questioned about registration. These are reserved for higher ranking government officials. These plates are to be treated as SA Exempt plates.&#x20;
* **Emergency Protection Order \[EPO]:** An emergency version of a restraining order which requires the restrained party to stay 50 feet away from the victim (protected party) and not attempt to contact them in any way, shape, or form. An EPO does not require a Judge's approval (but is submitted to the DOJ for records), may be issued by law enforcement at a victim's request, and is valid for 1 Week. If the victim wishes to have a permanent or long term Restraining Order (RO), they must contact the DOJ. An EPO is immediately valid and does not require serving.&#x20;
* **Restraining Order:** An official court authorized order which prohibits a restrained party from attempting to or successfully entering the vicinity of or making contact with the protected party.&#x20;
